---
layout: home
title: Illusion
---

## What is Illusion?
Illusion is an opinionated, mobile-first, progressive enhanced, accessible, SCSS base kit to kickstart websites with and helps you keep a maintainable SCSS code base.

Illusion is built to be used on top of <a href="#">Modernizr</a> and <a href="#">Normalize</a>. When included, Illusion does nothing. Enable features by <a href="#">setting SCSS variables</a> or using mixins.

Illusion let's you write consistent and clean code in less time. Based on an 8 point grid for harmonized design. Illusion is a combination of modern web-design philosophies, base styling and a function/mixin library.

To eliminate the duplicate code being generated by the mixins, we advise you to use something like grunt-contrib-cssmin. The duplicate code is generated because we don't know wether you already used a specific mixin in an element when you use it again.

We also advice to use something like autoprefixer to add the prefixes you need for your project.

The reason Illusion exists is because we found ourselves copy-pasting code from project to project even though we already used several libraries. The solution for a developer is an easy one then: just create your own!

---

### Opinionated
Illusion is very opinionated. We believe in certain values and philosophies. Illusion could be very useful to you if you share the same ideas:

- Mobile first philosophy and design
- Progressive enhancement
- Accessibility
- Maintainable CSS
- Harmonized design

---

### 8 point responsive grid
One of the most important aspects of a website is the grid it's based on. It can make a page feel balanced and in harmony when used right, but when used wrong a page may appear untrustworthy.

Illusion uses a grid that:
1. Is based on an 8 point grid
1. Has responsive gutters ranging from 16px to 32px (can be overwritten)
1. Is using calc() and pixels so vertical gutters follow horizontal ones
1. Comes with an optional fallback for the `<body>` element to have a set-width

By placing everything on an 8 point grid you ensure that your design looks crisp on all screens. Even screens with a 1.5 dpi. <a href="https://builttoadapt.io/intro-to-the-8-point-grid-system-d2573cde8632">Read more</a>

Exceptions could be fonts and their line-heights. For an optimal result you should try to maintain the line-height on the 8pt grid as much as possible. Whenever that's impossible because it looks weird you can always fall back to 4 pixel instead. You can have a line-height of 20px for example. It's adviced to keep the bottom margin on the 8pt grid.

#### How to maintain your 8pt grid
The grid mixins (span, gallery, spacing etc.) are fully based on the 8pt grid so there's nothing special you'll have to do there

Paragraphs, headings and other styled block elements have a standard 24px bottom-margin with an exception for the headings. Headings have a 16px bottom-margin to be a bit closer to the content it's representing to form a visual group.

For all other elements there are three more options to use
1. Use good old [spacing variables](#) that don't grow with the responsive gutters.
1. Use the [spacing mixin](#) to follow the responsive gutter.
1. If you don't want to automatically follow the responsive gutter you can use the [spacing function](#).

---

### Base styling

To stop all the copy pasting in this world we added some base styling. There are two levels that create base styling.

#### Level 1

The first level we call "Extendalize" and it basically extends Normalize styling the way we like it.

For example we remove top margins of elements and apply a bottom margin to block level elements that need it. We also remove the bottom margin from the last element in a parent.

##### Enable all extendalize features:

{% highlight css %}
$illusion-extendalize: true;
{% endhighlight %}

##### Enable individual extendalize features:

{% highlight css %}
$illusion-extendalize: false;
$illusion-extendalize-boxsizing: true;
$illusion-extendalize-svg: true;
{% endhighlight %}

##### Disable individual extendalize features:

{% highlight css %}
$illusion-extendalize: true;
$illusion-extendalize-image: false;
$illusion-extendalize-paragraph: false;
{% endhighlight %}

#### Level 2

The second level adds default styling for forms and sets a fallback for the body element for older browsers.

Todo: explanantion

---

### Mixins

Illusion comes with a great mixin and function library. More info here